This is not THE Middle East peace deal that has beguiled a generation of American presidents, the one President Donald Trump commissioned his son-in-law and special advisor Jared Kushner to conclude.

At its most optimistic read, the agreement announced Thursday by Trump between Israel and the United Arab Emirates to normalize relations between their two states is a poor man's facsimile for the, as yet, unachieved grand bargain between Israelis and Palestinians to quell their decades of conflict.
Yes, it is historic, but it is only an illusion of the peace President Trump vowed he'd deliver.
Back in January this year Trump announced the contours of what he called his Vision for Peace -- officially known as Peace for Prosperity. Palestinians boycotted it denouncing it as money for land, in their view giving up territory in return for promises of improved business prospects, while Israel threatened to take the land regardless.

In recent years, Trump had raised expectations of a breakthrough Palestinian-Israeli deal, and with it, the prospect of an even more precipitous fall if it failed.
The new agreement is implicit recognition that Trump's original peace plan is dead, yet it revives Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's political fortunes.
Netanyahu gets what he wants, decades of Arab intransigence to a deal on Israel's terms is crumbling, at little or no cost.
The Israeli PM's impulse to annex swaths of Israeli occupied West Bank land could have been the match to ignite tinder dry tensions, torching Palestinian aspirations for their own viable state. For now, the UAE appears to have dampened that prospect.
The joint statement states "As a result of this diplomatic breakthrough and at the request of President Trump with the support of the United Arab Emirates, Israel will suspend declaring sovereignty over areas outlined in the President's Vision for Peace and focus its efforts now on expanding ties with other countries in the Arab and Muslim world."
Anwar Gargash, the UAE's erudite Minister of State for Foreign Affairs defines the agreement's success, in part, as "Israel's commitment to stop the annexation of Palestinian lands, which will preserve the two-state solution."
